 Hate crimes against religious minorities have become increasingly common in India.
 Report after report have highlighted the rise of violent incidents against the
 minorities in India. The recent data shows that among the minorities hate crimes
 against Muslims have the largest volume with a 300% increase since the right-wing
 government came to power in the center in 2014. One of them is Jamiat Ulama-i-
 Hind, the oldest and largest socio-cultural organization of Indian
 Muslims, which has been on the ground for long, combating hate crimes committed
 against the country's religious minorities. And in this struggle, their
 justice and empowerment initiative hopes to change the disturbing trends of the
 increasing hate crimes against religious minorities. With the mission of
 safeguarding their human rights and countering hate speech targeted against
 them, JEM aims to ensure the implementation of equal rights, justice,
 peace, religious tolerance and coexistence for all in the country. Their
 objectives include developing a hate crime database, promoting the rule of
 law and access to justice, upholding citizens security and human rights,
 defending religious minorities and marginalized communities and promoting
 peace-building and interfaith harmony. These objectives tie with our ultimate
 goal of empowering the oppressed and wrongly persecuted and promoting a more
 just and inclusive society in India. For all of this to come together, JEM has
 four departments - Hate Crime Response Unit, Case Review Committee, Media Unit and
 Legal Unit. And this is how our work channels through them. It begins with the
 organization's reporting and ground networks when news about hate crimes is
 first received. We believe in verifying cases ourselves rather than relying
 solely on secondary sources. For this second step, local members of our Hate
 Crime Response Unit are deployed on the ground to provide immediate aid and
 collect testimonies from the victims. We also have our own website, a form to
 report a hate crime and a helpline number. All the received and collected
 information is then verified, analyzed and further listed under one of the seven
 types of cases that we are equipped to handle, namely acts of hate, acts of
 violence, attacks on religious places, police atrocities, discrimination,
 exclusion and prejudice, state-sponsored discriminatory practices and media
 manipulation and distortion of facts. At JEM, a specialized case review committee
 carefully screens these cases to assess how to help with our limited resources.
 And this is the final and most crucial part, intervention, which can fall into
 either of the four umbrella categories - reporting, documentation, advocacy and
 training and capacity building. With our diligent reporting, we bring forth policy
 demands, appeal to figureheads and dignitaries by writing letters and grab
 the media spotlight on these otherwise ignored issues. With facts out there, we
 continue with meticulous documentation of each and every case. We maintain a hate
 crime database, which documents alarming trends of hate crimes and
 simultaneously aids in developing tailored solutions to combat these crimes.
 In this regard, we also publish four quarterly reviews and an annual review every
 year. All of this documentation offers evidence for our long-term strategy for
 intervention, which is our advocacy for better legislation and policy making at
 different levels. Some of our legally advocated interventions have had a
 significant positive impact on the outcome of cases. At JEM, we also believe
 in capacity-building and empowering people. For this, we aim to establish state,
 city and town units in as many locations as possible. Well-versed in social
 political dynamics, these units are trained to promptly identify and address
 hate crimes and build trust and solidarity between different communities.
 They play a critical role in countering hate crimes by providing local
 presence, immediate assistance to victims and connecting them with legal and
 victim assistance services. Through their tireless efforts, JEM works towards
 empowering victims, promoting equality and fostering peace in India. Community
 support is crucial in the endeavor to counter hate crimes and promote a more
 inclusive society. Together, we can stand against discrimination and violence,
 ensuring that every individual feels safe and protected, regardless of their
 religious or social background. By supporting organizations like JEM and
 actively participating in initiatives, promoting dialogue, understanding and
 harmony, we can create a society where tolerance and acceptance prevail. Let us
 join hands and become champions for justice, equality and peace, supporting
 the good fight against hate.
